so you might have just watched a video
on a psychological horror film the hole
in the ground but you're still looking
for more answers don't worry I've got
you covered
because I'm going to be breaking down
the movie going over the mistakes made
along the way and tell you about the
details that you deftly missed as well
as ways to prove the changings are real
and destroyed their nests first you will
analyze the details of some key scenes
and gather information we need to beat
the monsters if you want to jump ahead
to those sections go to the timestamps
below if you got your own ideas let me
know in the comments down below this is
the hole in the ground so let's jump
straight into this one the film is about
a woman who believes her child is taken
by creatures and replaced by a
shape-shifting imposter but what are
these creatures here's what you don't
know these creatures are mainly based on
legendary changelings which the director
of the film confirmed as his source of
inspiration changelings of the offspring
of fairies that replace the children of
human families think of them as like
serial killing Tinker Bell's ish so who
are the poor Schmucks about the deal
with that
well Sara and Chris who are moving to
the middle of nowhere Ireland far from
the demons of their past she almost went
to this creepy old woman standing in the
road whose muttering under her breath
and staring at Chris old ladies of
horror movies never a good sign the
O'Neill is moving to this fixer-upper
but that night after dinner we learned
that Sara lied to Chris about his dad
coming with them and runs away after
calling his mom a liar the joys of
motherhood chasing after him Sara can't
seem to find Chris anywhere in the dark
wood but she does hear him screaming
from somewhere and stumbling around she
ends up near this giant sinkhole like
its massive it's gotta be as big as a
football field smack dab in the middle
of this clearing and the thought occurs
to Sara did Chris fall to the hole
well no he's fine and he's sorry for
throwing a temper tantrum did you catch
that this scene has key information that
we need to beat the changelings this
hole is where the changings live and we
learned that they disguise themselves as
the children they kidnapped and replace
them but one weakness is that they can't
steal the children's and memories if you
want to beat them we need to use this
against them so when Chris says I know
that dad makes you sad this confirms
that he didn't fall into the hole and
hasn't been kidnapped or replaced yet
now as the you Neil get used to living
here Chris is doing good in school if a
bit of a loner
while Sarah is making friends or some of
the locals but as you can see she's a
bit distracted but the conversation
turns to Noreen Brady that crazy woman
Sarah met who rumor has it ran over her
son with a car no if she had guard
surance during the night
Sarah wakes up to the floor creaking and
checking it out she finds that Chris is
missing from his bed
in fact he's nowhere in the house did
you see that for split second someone
was poking their head out behind the
tree
there you can see that it's actually
Chris but he's shirtless in hiding like
so like Scoob let's get out of here
reah rachel urato we're sprinting back
home she goes to call the cops to report
Chris missing but she hears a Ford
creaking and Chris's here waiting
outside of his room he's been here the
whole time which brings me to the next
key piece of information changelings are
very sneaky and fast they've managed to
slip into the house take Chris bury him
and get back all up in the blink of an
eye and they've broken - the previous
night - i sarah find the front door open
in the middle of the night so how can we
use this information to beat them sarah
obviously should have locked all the
windows and doors after finding open the
first night look I get it
they're in the middle of the woods but
it's honestly common sense in the most
basic way to protect yourself this would
have taken away their advantages stealth
and left them to brute-force making more
noise and giving Sarah better chance to
prevent it but as it is Sarah isn't sure
what's happening and why Chris went
missing whether she was hallucinating or
Chris was naked out in the forest like
an ancient druid either way Sarah's not
taking any chances and kids checked out
by a doctor on the next day and she
leaves a doctor were three weeks worth
of sleeping pills now when she wakes up
the next morning she finds Chris has a
bouquet of flowers for her that he got
from the guard it's unexpected almost
out of character at school
chris has made some friends and as the
two of them drive back home there's a
small detail that you might miss but
when Sarah asks him about his new
friends Chris mentions a Stewart Mackin
so when he earlier called a buttface and
when Sarah asks him wait didn't you hate
him he gets this look on his face that's
almost scared like he was caught in a
lie but that's when they run into that
crazy lady Noreen again standing at the
end of the road and when surge fisa get
her to move out of the way she tells
Sarah
they got her husband - is there to rein
her in Sarah takes out her cue to leave
but as they're about to go Noreen begins
shouting
and slapping the window like a crazy
person which I mean she is but looking
at Sara's face it gives her something to
think about
the next thing when she goes over to
talk to Noreen about her boy she finds
the old bat lying face-down Ravens
nipping at her skin as her heads been
buried in a hole in the ground what the
hell is going on now take a look at what
you missed our next key point to mention
is that changing to hide their true
identity at all costs in this scene
Chris is instantly on guard of Noreen
because she knows who Chris really is
she doesn't respond to the car honking
but to Chris's Changeling being nearby
zeroing in on this instinct that she
knows him and he definitely knows her
her son James was replaced by changeling
long ago and after being shipped off to
see a doctor
she came back and ran James over with
NASA's car
chris is changeling likely knew about
James's own imposter and knows who
killed him and why she ends up dead the
next morning to keep his secret safe and
get revenge
if Noreen hadn't could friended the
changeling she would be alive and be
able to help Sarah defeat him the best
thing to do here is to quietly gather
evidence and let the changeling think
that you don't suspect anything it gives
you time it makes them less guarded this
is really important because otherwise
you'll end up dead just like Noreen the
thought is terrifying
and when Sarah's being interviewed by
the cops about the body she has this
vision or hallucination she's looking
across the way to her son having this
arm wrestling match of this guy she sees
that he's strong like really really
strong and he breaks the other guy's arm
at the wrist just thank God is all
hallucination
or was it when Sarah returns back to
that giant hole going out for a jog she
finds someone at Chris's action figures
nearby she needs answers and dinner is
the perfect time for that Sarah asks him
if he's been outside and where's been
playing with Chris sane again and again
no I haven't and Chris gets so angry
that he shoved the table plates and all
so hard that he pushes back his mom
against the counter it here's another
key moment we learned that changelings
are freakishly strong and this time it's
not just the vision we can use this
information against it because we learn
it is easily provoked which could help
us prove that chris is a changeling
provoked aided in public would be best
as it keeps you safer than confronted
alone and hopefully people don't just
think that the kids on steroids
of course that's not the only hint that
Clues Sarah in that night she's enjoying
some me time doing her home spa thing
and she hears noises coming from Chris's
room and she creeps down below to peek
under the doorframe and we see the
spider crawling on the floor increases
their crawling after it on all fours
like an animal it's weird because Chris
is afraid of spiders and now he's fine
with it and when she peeks with a
keyhole to get a better look at what's
happening she sees him hunched over like
a goblin or something munching on the
spider and it freaks Sarah out you know
if that was my son we'd be having a talk
like dude you know we have leftovers in
the fridge was my cookie that bad that
you would literally rather eat spiders
that's it
from now on you're eating bugs for
dinner don't come cried to me because
you may suspect any sundaes again you
brought this on yourself
so anyways she takes the child to the
doctor for a visit and the doctor finds
that nothing's wrong with him it's not
the most unusual thing a child's even
now even though the doctor doesn't
believe her Sarah's got a plan
and goes to buy a digital camera that
she hides in Chris's incredibly neat and
tidy room yeah definitely not her kid
alrighty good for that matter I mean
have you seen my bedroom yeah anyways
she finds the perfect place to hide a
digital camera that she leaves running
in this hole now I really wish she was
more careful because Chris finds her and
Esther what she's doing in his room and
she tries to wave it off as just doing
laundry but you can tell the both mother
and child are stuck in a cold war as
they are both suspicious of what the
other one knows and when Sarah comes
back for the camera the next day she
sees something shocking that might prove
she's not crazy
and this brings us to proving the
changeling is a changeling without Sarah
letting and know what she's trying to do
the best ways for Sarah to get as much
information as she can to prove that
something is wrong with Chris taking
that along with video recordings of
Chris's odd behavior she could then go
to a child psychologist and give them
all this evidence a child psychologist
would ask the changing questions about
its mood about its memories like keep
telling me you felt scared do you miss
your dad things are the change they
wouldn't be able to answer and the
psychologist would be able to confirm
Sarah's thoughts yeah there is something
wrong for your son but okay what if the
changeling is able to pass all the
questions since we know he was able to
behave normally in a social environment
at school talking with other kids and
befriending Chris's voli we might need
some harder evidence Sara took a camera
and evidence to desks but it turned out
to be a big mistake des doesn't believe
what he sees and destroys the camera but
we do learn some key information from
the scene that we can use to prove the
changelings are real des tell Sarah that
Noreen used mirrors that check if
someone was a changeling because the
reflection showed their true form
something Sarah can do is hang up
mirrors throughout the house keeping
them around places where the changeling
would be and secretly take photos of its
reflection using her smartphone now wait
a minute
there are several scenes where the
changeling is in the car where he should
have been seen in the rearview or
sideview mirrors but if you look closely
the sideview mirror isn't there because
it broke off the first time Sarah ran
into Noreen with the photo the changings
reflection and of course that changed
they locked up she has enough evidence
to prove without a doubt that she isn't
a crazy unfortunately she doesn't do any
of that and now she's beginning to
crack we see how far she's gone as she
watched this performance at school the
kids in chris's class sing the song with
smiles but chris is soulless and when
it's his turn he speaks it
[Music]
[Applause]
never blinking only staring straight at
Sarah and freaks out running off like a
L'Oreal commercial the long hair bouncy
floor Lauria because I'm worth it
Sarah's now more determined than ever
and is hatching a plan those are her
meds in the rubbish there and it seems
her plan revolves around cooking up
Chris's favorite spaghetti and she's
very careful not to sprinkle the
Parmesan cheese on her pasta whatever
she's put into it makes Chris all sleepy
and tired that should make it easier to
deal with his super strength smart and
was even smarter is that she's gonna
play a game with him his favorite game
of making funny faces to each other
after the count of three guess what
Chris doesn't know what to do and now
they're at a stalemate okay maybe not a
stalemate he definitely has the upper
hand
you know as smart as Sarah has been up
until now this has got to be the
stupidest thing she could have done
tricking the shapeshifter into a Mexican
standoff and she doesn't even have a
weapon with her it's a great strategy if
you want your last words to be I told
you so not so much if you want to find
your kid and live now she's waking up
except that she's in a forest being
buried alive by the child wait
chris is falling going to a drug laced
ooh parmesan induced food coma right
next to his mom who struggles to get
back up and dragged that child back home
dropping him down to the basement like a
sack of potatoes but she's got a mirror
which he holds him next to the child's
face and whatever the hell replaced
Chris he is not happy with Sarah waking
up and attacking her only to get his
hand slammed into a wall
that was super easy and she locks the
thing in the basement but as soon as she
gets out the thing in there starts
screaming its head off and when it stops
she realizes where she has to go and
although this feels like a bad idea
Sarah with nothing more than a
flashlight jumps into that massive hole
in the forest sinking into these old
tunnels but they're crammed full of dirt
soil bones human bones which have been
here for who knows how long but looking
closely that's school right there
has two missing front teeth I guess we
know what happened to him and to Chris
who she finds here asleep carrying her
son to take him back around Sarah she's
more of those things waking up in the
cave now one of them chases her and
Sarah makes a mad dash out of there but
as she's dragging Chris out that thing
grabs her wrist and Sarah just began
smacking on this thing's wrist then she
stops because she realizes it now has a
human hand and face her face looking at
the other Sarah you can see there's
something missing in her eyes something
not quite human now somehow she gets out
of her son and goes back home to pick up
the car keys but there's still one loose
thread to deal with the thing locked in
the basement was still life Sarah's got
the solution burn it burn it to the
ground destroy any chance of this
nightmare coming back to get them and
leaving it all behind going from one who
start to the next Sarah returns to her
studies in the city away from her
husband and from the whole and yet that
paranoia that trauma confusion still
remains still unsure for son isn't one
of those things as she has mirrors
placed throughout the house
it seems like Sara's figured everything
out she was smart enough aim determined
enough to find her kid and rescue him
find out of the changing wasn't her son
and of course when I get out of there
alive
however she made a lot of mistakes so
let's rewind the funny thing about
horror movies is that they never talk
about what happens after the hero
survives sure Sara was able to burden on
the home and probably kill the
changeling locked inside of it but
that's a stupid idea as soon as she
leaves town people are going to be
wondering what happened why she left in
a hurry and why Chris hasn't been coming
into school lately someone's going to
come poking around find the house and
the charred remains of a looks like a
child in the ruins an investigation is
going to be opened and Sara will be the
prime suspect in an arson murder
investigation how is she going to
explain the body the police will be
asking her friends in the village and
they will tell them how unhinged Sara
became about her son not being Hurst a
delusion that she shared with Noreen
desta's wife who also killed her own son
so that one can get for Sara who won't
be able to give any answer that doesn't
sound crazy
she's also left a whole bunch of loose
ends untied the nested changelings who
are going to get revenge on the nearby
towns folk taking their children and
replacing them again and again and again
thanks a lot Sarah last time I invite
you to the school bake-off did that end
how do we beat the changelings once Sara
has proven that the changes are real and
that her son was abducted she can tell
them about the whole and the fact that
she found human remains down there these
things should get people over to the
hole to excavated cops excavation teams
emergency medical personnel or strangers
people like that who could cordon off
the area dig it up and put a stop to the
clan of changelings down there the human
bones alone would make this a heavily
monitored crime scene if a changeling
came out it would definitely be seen by
someone at least they would know what
they're up against they could do a
variety of things like smoke them out
said deadly traps around the exit hole
blow the tunnels of dynamite I mean once
the government gets involved what could
go wrong and there you have it ways we
shared the
that changelings were real and ways to
destroy the changing zest once and for
all but what do you guys think what else
could have Sarah done let me know I'm
curious and hey if you're into this sort
of thing learning about monsters and how
to beat them I've got a whole playlist
up on the channel already that you can
check out thank you so much for watching
if you enjoyed it leave a like down
below and of course subscribe for more
content and until next time have a damn
good day